Updates to client-based rate limiting (#3289)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/rl-clientbased/index.md

# Client-based rate limits

Client-based rate limiting applies to unauthenticated endpoints within Okta that are used during the client application access process. This process can include multiple API endpoints that differ based on your type of org: Okta Identity Engine or Okta Classic Engine.

> The Classic Engine and the Identity Engine both include rate-limiting for the OAuth 2.0 API endpoint `/authorize`. This endpoint uses a combination of the Client ID, user's IP address, and Okta device identifier to provide granular isolation for requests made to the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` endpoint. This framework isolates rogue OAuth 2.0 clients and bad actors, thereby ensuring valid users and applications don't run into rate limit violations.

Reviewer: ...both include client-based rate limiting...

> The Identity Engine includes client-based rate limiting for multiple APIs that implement the [Interaction Code grant type](/docs/concepts/interaction-code/), which performs a series of interactions and API calls between the user and authorization server.

Reviewer: The client-based limiting only applies to the "entry points" for those flows where they are bootstrapped. Once they've begun it generally no longer applies.

Author: Changed that sentence to: `The Identity Engine includes client-based rate limiting for multiple API entry points that implement...`

> The Classic Engine also includes client-based rate limiting for the `/login/login.htm` endpoint, and uses a combination of the user's IP address and Okta device identifier to provide even more granular, more targeted rate limits to a user, app, script, or server.

Reviewer: "~even more~ granular"
"~more~ targeted"

> Currently, the client-based rate limits apply to these endpoints on both the Okta Org Authorization Server and any Custom Authorization Server. All Custom Authorization Servers share a [rate limit](/docs/reference/rate-limits/). The Org Authorization Server has a separate rate limit.

Reviewer: This part is specific to `/authorize` requests

Author: Changed that sentence to: `Currently, the client-based rate limits for the OAuth2 `/authorize` endpoint apply to both the...`

Each valid request made by a user to this endpoint is counted as one request against the respective [authorization server](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) rate limit bucket, for example, `/oauth2/${authorizationServerId}/v1` (Custom Authorization Server) or `/oauth2/v1` (Okta Org Authorization Server). The per minute rate limits on these endpoints apply across an Okta tenant.

> Currently, you can't update the per client rate limit. Every client ID/IP/device identifier combination (for the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` endpoint) ,  IP/device identifier combination (for the `/login/login.htm` endpoint), or Identity Engine endpoints gets 60 total requests per minute and a maximum of five concurrent requests.

Reviewer: Do we need this section at all? It is covered in the questions below

Author: No, removed. FYI ... does the addition of "or Identity Engine endpoints" make sense here? I simply made the assumption.

# Client-based rate limits

>  Client-based rate limiting applies to unauthenticated endpoints within Okta that are used during the client application access process. A client being, in this context, one of two types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Client-based rate limiting applies to unauthenticated endpoints within Okta that are used during the client application access process. This applies to two types of clients:
```

> * An OAuth 2.0 application, which uses a combination of client ID, IP address, or device identifier for rate-limiting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An OAuth 2.0 application, which uses a combination of client ID, IP address, or device identifier for rate-limiting
```
fragment?

Author: I like Maurice's idea of periods after everything. Makes life easier for writers, haha.

> * A non-OAuth 2.0 application (as is the case for a Classic org `/login/login.htm` endpoint), which uses the IP address and device identifier for rate-limiting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A non-OAuth 2.0 application (as is the case for a Classic org `/login/login.htm` endpoint), which uses the IP address and device identifier for rate-limiting
```

The client access process can include requests to multiple API endpoints that differ based on your type of org: Okta Identity Engine or Okta Classic Engine.

> The Classic Engine and the Identity Engine both include client-based rate-limiting for the OAuth 2.0 API endpoint `/authorize`. This endpoint uses a combination of the Client ID, user's IP address, and Okta device identifier to provide granular isolation for requests made to the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` endpoint. This framework isolates rogue OAuth 2.0 clients and bad actors, thereby ensuring valid users and applications don't run into rate limit violations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Classic Engine and the Identity Engine both include client-based rate-limiting for the OAuth 2.0 API endpoint `/authorize`. This endpoint uses a combination of client ID, user's IP address, and Okta device identifier to provide granular isolation for requests made to the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` endpoint. This framework isolates rogue OAuth 2.0 clients and bad actors, thereby ensuring that valid users and applications don't run into rate limit violations.
```

The Identity Engine includes client-based rate limiting for multiple API entry points that implement the [Interaction Code grant type](/docs/concepts/interaction-code/), which performs a series of interactions and API calls between the user and authorization server.

The Classic Engine also includes client-based rate limiting for the `/login/login.htm` endpoint, and uses a combination of the user's IP address and Okta device identifier to provide granular, targeted rate limits to a user, app, script, or server.

> The client-based rate limits for the OAuth2 `/authorize` endpoint apply to both the Okta Org Authorization Server and any Custom Authorization Server. All Custom Authorization Servers share a [rate limit](/docs/reference/rate-limits/). The Org Authorization Server has a separate rate limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client-based rate limits for the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` endpoint apply to both the Okta Org Authorization Server and any Custom Authorization Server. All Custom Authorization Servers share the same [rate limit](/docs/reference/rate-limits/). The Org Authorization Server has a separate rate limit.
```
not sure if "a" should be replaced with "the same"? but just "a" sounds awkward

Author: Good catch

Each valid request made by a user to this endpoint is counted as one request against the respective [authorization server](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) rate limit bucket, for example, `/oauth2/${authorizationServerId}/v1` (Custom Authorization Server) or `/oauth2/v1` (Okta Org Authorization Server). The per minute rate limits on these endpoints apply across an Okta tenant.

> You can't update the per client rate limit. Every client gets 60 total requests per minute and a maximum of five concurrent requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can't update the per client rate limit. Every client is allowed 60 total requests per minute and a maximum of five concurrent requests.
```

In March 2022, the default client-based rate limit is set to **Enforce limit and log per client (recommended)** mode for the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` and `/login/login.htm` endpoints. This means that if an org's client-based rate limit was previously set to **Do nothing** or **Log per client**, the setting is going to change to **Enforce limit and log per client (recommended)** mode.

> If your org is upgrading to the Identity Engine, the existing classic client-based rate-limit settings require no updates during the upgrade. The `/login/login.htm` setting maps to the Identity Engine client application access setting, and the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` setting maps to the same Oauth2 /`authorize` setting on Identity Engine. The mode selection remains the same after upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your org is upgrading to the Identity Engine, the existing Classic Engine client-based rate-limit settings require no updates during the upgrade. The `/login/login.htm` setting maps to the Identity Engine client application access setting, and the OAuth 2.0 `/authorize` setting maps to the same OAuth 2.0 /`authorize` setting on Identity Engine. The mode selection remains the same after the upgrade.
```
Is there a difference between OAuth 2.0 and "Oauth2" in Identity Engine?

Author: No,  missed the shorthand. Thanks.

#### What to monitor and the action to take

If an org's client-based limit was previously set to **Enforce limit and log per client (recommended)** mode, the setting remains as is. For this mode setting, admins need to monitor System Log events for [`system.client.rate_limit.violation`](/docs/reference/rl-system-log-events/#web-request-rate-limits-client-level) and [`system.client.concurrency_rate_limit.violation`](/docs/reference/rl-system-log-events/#web-request-rate-limits-client-level). If admins don't see any of those events in the System Log, then no action is needed. If admins see these events sporadically from just a small number of different users, then those users may be doing something scripted or automated. In such cases, admins can choose to either investigate the issue or take no action. However, if admins see widespread events from a large number of users, then it is likely that the application may have an issue, in which case admins need to troubleshoot and make changes to the application where needed.

### Check your rate limits with Okta Rate Limit headers

> The Rate Limit headers that are returned when the client-based rate limit is enabled are very similar to the headers that are returned through the [org-wide rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/). The difference is that the header value is specific to a given client rather than the org-wide rate limit values. Okta provides three headers in each response to report client-specific rate limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Rate Limit headers that are returned when the client-based rate limit is enabled are very similar to the headers that are returned through the [org-wide rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/). The difference is that the header values are specific to a given client rather than the org-wide rate limit values. Okta provides three headers in each response to report client-specific rate limits.
```

> **Note:** If a client-based rate limit is in **Log per client** or **Do nothing** mode, headers that are returned still reflect the org-wide rate limits.

For client-specific rate limits, the three headers show the limit that is being enforced, when it resets, and how close you are to hitting the limit:

> * `X-Rate-Limit-Limit` &ndash; The rate limit ceiling that is applicable for the current request to the specific client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `X-Rate-Limit-Limit`: The rate limit ceiling that is applicable for the current request to the specific client.
```

> * `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining` &ndash; The number of requests left until the limit is hit for the specific client during the current rate limit window

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`: The number of requests left until the limit is hit for the specific client during the current rate limit window
```

> * `X-Rate-Limit-Reset` &ndash; The time when the rate limit resets, specified in [UTC epoch time](https://www.epochconverter.com/) for the specific client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `X-Rate-Limit-Reset`: The time when the rate limit resets, specified in [UTC epoch time](https://www.epochconverter.com/) for the specific client.
```

**Q: Can I update the per client rate limit today?**

> No. Today every client gets 60 total requests per minute and a maximum of five concurrent requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No. Today every client is allowed 60 total requests per minute and a maximum of five concurrent requests.
```

**Q: Does the org-wide rate limit still apply when I enable the client-based rate limit?**

Yes. When the cumulative total request or maximum concurrent requests from every unique client exceeds the org-wide rate limits, your Okta org experiences org-wide rate limit errors.

**Q: Would the rate limit headers returned by Okta on the OAuth 2.0 /authorize or /login/login.htm endpoint reflect client-specific rate limits?**

> Yes. The header value is specific to a given client rather than the org-wide rate limit values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes. The header values are specific to a given client rather than the org-wide rate limit values.
```
